Encased in a white chat box with black monotype text is a statement
“I think one day we will be able to go outside again.”
A down arrow follows the statement, prompting
the user to expand the context of the conversation.
As we waited in the middle of everything last March, I kept thinking about how “later” had taken on new importance.
It had been elevated from that place to which
we’d relegate anything that did not really concern us
to a place where we’d do everything.
I built a web interface to facilitate a series of online chats with people
where we would make plans for a “later date”, when we were able to go outside again.
I fantasized about these later dates.
Being in the same space as other people.
Reaching out and touching.
Shared surfaces.
Breathing, talking, anything really.
It is a performance in two parts.
In the first, we chat and imagine together our first meeting.
Where will we go, what will we do, what will we say?
This future plan gets saved as a sort of script.
Later, when allowed out again, they receive a request to meet and we enact this script.
This is part two.
You were one of the last people I saw before the UCLA campus closed down that day.
We were having grad reviews.
We sat on a couch together looking at a jittery data visualization I made using flight data.
Would it be that jittery if I took data just a few weeks later?
Everything in the room was dark, minus the projection light.
The furniture was shifted around to accommodate my install.
Changes to a familiar space seemed to add dramatic effect to what was going on outside the school walls.
The future was looming in the air.
We both wondered what would happen.
Or if anything would happen at all.
How would the events that were to unfold going to change our lives?
We were planning with each other while we were negotiating with the future.
What season will it be?
Will we be able to embrace?
Will that place still exist?
We talked about the first days when frantic decisions were being made,
and each of our personal boundaries closing in as we began to feel unsafe with one another.
We acknowledged the discomfort of trying to find a stable place in a situation we refuse to accept as normal.
We make extremely specific plans, subject to change.
Our conversation was the opposite of a Zoom grid.
It was one-to-one, slow, text-only.
I called this piece a performance, but with the camera off, it felt like the first non-performance I had experienced in weeks.
The interaction is about waiting instead of streaming.
And in this lack of bandwidth, we are left space to imagine.
The person on the other end, whose presence we are only certain of at brief moments when messages pop onscreen.
The later with this person when we will meet in highest fidelity.
The days and months that will unfold after this exchange.